Now what this header does is informs the browser that your site requires HTTPS.
The user browser would then cache this and all future subsequent requests
will automatically be defaulted to HTTPS by the browser,
even if your user specifies HTTP. Now this is great from
protecting against man‑in‑the‑middle attacks.
It also prevents your user from accepting any
invalid certificate for that domain.
Now in order for the browser to accept the HSTS header you need a
valid certificate signed by a certificate authority.
Once you have this in place,
the user's browser will accept the HSTS header provided by Spring Security by
default. Because the current certificate is not signed by our certificate
authority your users get that scary browser warning.
They then have to add the exception manually and have that
annoying broken handbag in the top‑left corner,
which just doesn't look professional. With Let's Encrypt,
you can get a domain validation certificate for free so your users don't have
to deal with that annoying warning and can have the confidence that the server
they're connecting to actually owns that domain.
In this demo I will show you how to generate certificates with Let's Encrypt,
how to configure your Spring Boot application with these certificates, and how
to renew expired certificates. Let's Encrypt uses Automated Certificate
Management Environment protocol to verify that you control the domain address
without any human intervention.
You do this by cloning the source of the Certbot from Git. The Certbot runs a
small web server behind the scenes to communicate with Let's Encrypt to verify
that you control that server and own that domain.
It then generates and renews keys for you.
You need to, however,
make sure that port 80 is open for outbound and that
you have Python 2.7 installed.
Now in order to properly demonstrate this, I need a domain.
So I borrowed one from a site that I'm in the middle of working on,
kasiaphotos, which is not very synonymous with crypto, but it will do for this
demo. Now if we run the following command the ‑w indicates the webroot and the
‑d indicates the domain you want to certify.
The keys will then be generated in the following directory where
Let's Encrypt will generate the PEM files.
Now, Spring actually doesn't support this format.
It actually supports PKCS12. However,
we can use OpenSSL to convert between those two formats.
So once we've converted the key store,
we can now update the Spring properties files with
the new key store information.
Now there is a vulnerability here.
You can see that the key store password is in plain text,
and also there is the location of the key.
Now this makes it vulnerable if your server is breached or if a hacker
manages to get the source or the release artifact.
Now many organizations have central Nexus
repositories where everyone has access to.
So, anyone can easily download the release artifact or they
could just fork or clone the Git repository.
As in many organizations now, they are promoting a more, an open source culture.
Now,
I can't recall how many times I've reviewed code with really
great implementations for security only to find these details in
plain text in the properties files.
Now in the next module you will learn how to secure these details. For now,
for the purpose of this demo, this is fine.
Now if we refresh the page, we now have the green lock or, according to my wife,
the green handbag.
The cert is valid for 90 days, and renewing it is very simple.
We just run the renew command on the Certbot. Now the HSTS
header should be accepted by the browser.
As you can see,
the first HTTP request is now redirected to HTTP, but notice that
the latency was 0. The browser didn't even send the request out. It
just automatically redirected to HTTPS.
You may have probably noticed that the very first request to your site from
the browser is still vulnerable, as the browser will not have the HSTS
header details cached yet. The HTTP request would be sent to the server,
the server will send the HTTP response with the redirect to HTTPS, and only
after the first HTTP request responds will the HSTS header be enabled for
all future requests.
Hence,
the hacker has a small window of opportunity to
perform a man‑in‑the‑middle attack.
There is a solution to this.
You can have your domain included in the browser's preloaded host list.
Now most browsers support this now. For more information about submitting your domain for inclusion go to the following website.